FONTLOG for the Foundation One font

This file provides detailed information on the Foundation One font software.  This information should be distributed along with the Foundation One font and any derivative works.

Basic Font Information

Foundation One is based on the central font design used in Foundation, the Apple TV+ series.

Foundation One is taken from the design most people would associate with the show.  It features distinctive S, M, U, W, B, K and G shapes not shared with other typefaces.  Many characters and all the numbers include dots in the design (H, 1, 3) or as a decorative element (A, S, W).  This design is used with text superimposed on the visuals, almost always to indicate a new context, such as a location (e.g., “SYNNAX”) or a change in the time frame, for example, “400 YEARS EARLIER,” and “17 YEARS AFTER THE STARBRIDGE BOMBING.” 

Foundation One is a Unicode typeface family that supports all languages that use the Latin script and its variants, and could be expanded to support other scripts.

More specifically, this release of version 0.4 supports the following Unicode ranges:  U+0020 - U+007D, U+2013 - U+201D

This release contains much of the Basic Latin codebase characters (with the lowercase glyphs being duplicates of the uppercase), as well as various symbols and punctuation located elsewhere, 99 characters (or 101 glyphs, including spaces) in all.

Documentation and source files can be found at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-one

Foundation One was created using iFontMaker, the iPad font-design tool made by Eiji and Tom, Inc., which you can find at 2ttf.com.  The font can also be downloaded from 2ttf.com/BW7GxybNOS0 (the Gallery at 2ttf.com hosts some 65,000 fonts created with iFontMaker that are available for downloading).

Related Projects

Related OFL fonts based on designs used in Foundation are also located at GitHub:

- Foundation Titles Hand, based on the title sequence of Foundation is located at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-titles-hand

- Foundation One (this project) is based on the design used onscreen to indicate a change in context, time or location and is located at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-one

- Foundation Logo is based on the series’ logo design and is located at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-logo

- Foundation Screen is the design used for text displayed on computer screens, which is derived from Foundation One; it’s located at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-screen

- Foundation Icons is based on the icons shown in signage and on computer screens; it’s located at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-icons-hand

- A version of Foundation One with serifs is planned, located at github.com/rsperberg/foundation-serif

To contribute to any of these projects, visit its Github page.

ChangeLog

18-24 October 2021 (Roger Sperberg) Foundation One version 0.4
- created Github repository with ttf and source files, OFL and other information files and samples
- initial release to public (but not Github release)

Acknowledgments

If you make modifications be sure to add your name (N), email (E), web-address (if you have one) (W) and description (D). This list is in alphabetical order.

N: Roger Sperberg
E: glypheryfonts@gmail.com
W: http://glyphery.com
D: Designer - made original Roman glyphs from character design used onscreen in Foundation, an Apple TV+ series, designer unknown

Glyphery is a font foundry created by Roger Sperberg, located on the web at glyphery.com.

-----
© 2021 GitHub, Inc.
